--
layout: page
--
# Contributing to SFrame

Anyone can contribute to this work. There is no "membership" requirement or
formal procedures require to participate. Anyone who participates in the work,
as outlined below, is part of the Working Group.

Before doing so, it's a good idea to familiarize yourself with our [active
work](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/sframe/documents/),
[charter](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/sframe/about/), and [mailing list
archives](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/sframe).

If you're new to this, you may also want to read the [Tao of the
IETF](https://www.ietf.org/tao.html).

**Be aware that all contributions fall under the "NOTE WELL" terms outlined
below.**


## Following Discussion

The Working Group has a few venues for discussion:

* We have a session at most [IETF meetings](https://www.ietf.org/meeting/), and
  sometimes in between. See our [meeting materials
  repository](https://github.com/sframe/wg-materials), and the [official
  proceedings](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/sframe/meetings/) for details.

* Our [mailing list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/sframe) is used for
  most communication, including notifications of meetings, new drafts, consensus
  calls and other business, as well as issue discussion.

* We also discuss specific issues on the issues list of different repositories
  in this organization.

To be active in the Working Group, you can participate in any of these places.


## Raising Issues

We use GitHub issue tracking to manage open discussion items.

Before filing a new issue, please consider a few things:

* Issues should be just that; issues with our deliverables, **not proposals,
  questions or support requests**.

* Please review the issues list to make sure that you aren't filing a duplicate.

* If you're not sure how to phrase your issue, please ask on the [mailing
  list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/sframe).

Issues can also be raised on the [Working Group mailing
list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/sframe) by clearly marking them as
such (e.g., in the `Subject:` line).

Be aware that issues might be rephrased, changed in scope, or combined with
others, so that the group can focus its efforts. If you feel that such a change
loses an important part of your original issue, please bring it up, either in
comments or on the list.

Off-topic and duplicate issues will be closed without discussion. Note that
comments on individual commits will only be responded to with best effort, and
may not be seen.


## Resolving Issues

It is the goal of the working group to achieve consensus regarding all
substantive issues.  Issues that are determined to be substantive will be tagged
with a `design` tag.  It is expected that these issues will not be closed unless
there is consensus on a conclusion.

Editors are given discretion in how they manage issues.  Any issue that document
editors believe to be resolved in the current state of the documents can be
closed.

This follows "Early Design Phase" process from [Section 5.3.1 of RFC
8874](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8874#section-5.3.1).

Any dispute with the resolution can be raised with chairs, who will make a
decision.  See also [RFC 2418](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2418) which
outlines the working group processes and more details on dispute resolution.


## Pull Requests

We welcome pull requests, both for editorial suggestions and to resolve open
issues. In the latter case, please identify the relevant issue.

Please do not use a pull request to open a new issue.


## NOTE WELL

The [IETF Guidelines for Conduct](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7154) applies
to all Working Group communications and meetings.

This repository relates to activities in the Internet Engineering Task Force
([IETF](https://www.ietf.org/)). All material in this repository is considered
Contributions to the IETF Standards Process, as defined in the intellectual
property policies of IETF currently designated as
[BCP 78](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp78),
[BCP 79](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp79) and the
[IETF Trust Legal Provisions (TLP) Relating to IETF Documents](http://trustee.ietf.org/trust-legal-provisions.html).

Any edit, commit, pull request, issue, comment or other change made to this
repository constitutes Contributions to the IETF Standards Process
(https://www.ietf.org/).

You agree to comply with all applicable IETF policies and procedures, including,
BCP 78, 79, the TLP, and the TLP rules regarding code components (e.g. being
subject to a Simplified BSD License) in Contributions.
